BDR-4213/BDR-4222 Security section revamp and fix (#4942)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/security/pgd-predefined-roles.mdx

---
title: PGD predefined roles
---

PGD predefined roles are created when the BDR extension is installed. After BDR
extension is dropped from a database, the roles continue to exist. You need to
drop them manually if dropping is required. This practice allows PGD to be used
in multiple databases on the same PostgreSQL instance without problem.

The `GRANT ROLE` DDL statement doesn't participate in PGD replication. Thus,

> execute this on each node of a cluster.

Reviewer: Should this be an admonition? Or can this note be removed from here? Do I have to run this command to create these roles? This needs more context.

Author: Not an admonition as this is literally the multiple database issue.

```suggestion
A `GRANT ROLE` DDL statement issued for a non replicated database doesn't participate in PGD replication. If the user/role is needed on other nodes, execute the command on each node of a cluster.
```
